# SQL-MSOffice-Report
Excel workbook that reads a database from your computer and creates a resulting word report on the database's information.

Overview

The main sheet on Student_Marking_Application has a button that will display the Base user form, this is the user form that allows the user to navigate all the options for the Assignment. The base connects to Assignment_picker, course, and importer forms when prompted. Assignment_picker allows the user to generate sheets and a word report on their chosen assignments, the course allows the user to pick a course and have its student information displayed, and the importer allows the user to change the Database. Error handling exists throughout the sheets to ensure it runs smoothly. Around sheet creation in Assignment_picker’s sub chargraph, an error will be thrown if its assignment sheet has already been created, if thrown, the user will be notified and may start again. Another error can be thrown if the Excel Workbook is not properly saved, causing an ActiveX Error when creating a new worksheet, this can happen in Assignment_picker’s sub chargraph. If thrown, the user will be notified, and the form will restart. The final error handler is Importer. To make sure the users imported database works correctly, there is a test run of its database properties, if there is an error, the user's database is not valid and a message box is displayed accordingly. Display buttons for each user form are given in the custom tab “Display”.

Macros & PivotTable Creation

The pivot tables and graphs in Assignment_picker are all created through the use of Macros. The data is added to each worksheet automatically through the subs chartgraph and finalcalculator. The macros select this data, create a pivot table and its resulting graphs. First, a pivot table is made with the selected data, and a column for the frequency of each mark is added to the table so that a proper frequency chart can be created. The graphs and required range are then copied to the clipboard so that it may be added to the generated word report in the sub wordeditor. After the tables and graphs are created. The original range containing the raw data is deleted to make the sheet look organized and clean. The pivot tables and graphs in Assignment_picker are all created through the use of Macros. The data is added to each worksheet automatically through the subs chartgraph and finalcalculator. The macros select this data, create a pivot table and its resulting graphs. First, a pivot table is made with the selected data, and a column for the frequency of each mark is added to the table so that a proper frequency chart can be created. The graphs and required range are then copied to the clipboard so that it may be added to the generated word report in the sub wordeditor. After the tables and graphs are created. The original range containing the raw data is deleted to make the sheet look organized and clean. 

Database Connections

All connections in this assignment are created with an ADODB connection to the given database. The connection to get assignment marks simply retrieves the user’s chosen assignment from grades and prints them in a column. In the Assignment_picker user form, The connection to get final averages retrieves all assignment data, as well as the student's ID so that the program may calculate each student's overall average. In the user form Course, the connection to get student information retrieves student's first name, last name, and student id from grades joined with students. The connection to retrieve courses for the list box simply retrieves all course codes from the courses table. The only connection in the form Importer calls all course codes from courses, this is an arbitrary connection as its only function is to ensure that the user's selected database follows the Registar format.
